---
layout: post
title:  "OpenSSL"
categories: openssl
tags:  openssl testssl
author: Trelis
---

* content
{:toc}

# Description
When analyzing the communications of a website, one of the scripts it's used is TestSSL because it's a fast way to test the cryptography and certificates of the site.
However, in the final report the results of this script should not be used as an evidence. That's why I want to do a summary of how to check manually SSL/TLS vulnerabilities.




# Protocols
## SSLv2
SSLv2 have a lot of weaknesses which could a allow an attacker to decrypt an modify communications.

To check whether SSLv2 is enabled on the remote host, the following command can be used: 
´´´
openssl s_client –ssl2 -connect example.com:443
´´´
If SSLv2 is supported, the handshake will complete and server certificate information will be returned. Otherwise, it will return a handshake failure error.

## SSLv3
It has a vulnerability called POODLE which allow decryption of communications and disclosure of session cookies if an attacker does a "padding oracle" attack against ciphers using cipher-block chaining (CBC) mode. 
Moreover, the only non-CBC cipher supported in SSLv3 is RC4, which is know as a cryptographically weak cipher.

To test whether a system supports SSLv3, the following OpenSSL command can be used:
```
openssl s_client –ssl3 -connect example.com:443

```
If SSLv3 is supported, the handshake will complete and server certificate information will be returned and the server is vulnerable to POODLE. Otherwise, it will return a handshake failure error.

## TLS > v1.0
To test whether a system supports TLS, the following OpenSSL command can be used:

```
openssl s_client -tls1_1 -connect example.com:443

```

```
openssl s_client -tls1_2 -connect example.com:443

```
If it does not connect, the server might be vulnerable because it will probably use SSLv2 or SSLv3 protocols.


# Ciphers
The cipher suite chosen specifies a set of algorithms which the client and server will use to perform key exchange, encryption, and message authentication.
A cipher suite is typically described in a format similar to this:

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

where RSA is the key exchange algorithm, AES_128_CBC is the encryption cipher (AES using a 128-bit key operating in Cipher-Block Chaining mode), and SHA is the Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm.

The cipher suites a server is configured to support should be dictated by its security requirements. The following guidelines are generally recommended as a baseline:

    * The key exchange algorithm should be restricted to those which provide "perfect forward secrecy", such as Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman (DHE) or Ephemeral Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDHE).
    * The cipher should not suffer from known cryptanalytic flaws. This rules out RC4 which has been known to have flaws for many years and in the past few years has been shown to be significantly weaker than originally thought.
    * The cipher should use at least a 128 bit key (which rules out DES and Triple-DES).
    * Cipher-Block Chaining (CBC) mode is prone to padding oracle attacks and should ideally be avoided altogether, but specifically it should not be used in conjunction with SSLv3 or TLSv1.0 as this can lead to vulnerability to the BEAST attack. An alternative is Galois Counter Mode (GCM) which is not affected by these problems and offers authenticated encryption.
    * The message authentication algorithm should ideally be SHA256. MD5 is known to be cryptographically weak and should be avoided, and SHA1 (just denoted SHA in the cipher suite specifications) has its own weaknesses which place attacks within the realm of possibility.
    * For all three algorithms, the NULL / anon setting should be avoided as these provide no security at all. "Export" algorithms should also be disabled as their short key lengths make them susceptible to brute-force attacks and other attacks such as the FREAK attack.

There are two ways to test the ciphers. The first one is with openSSL:
```
openssl s_client -cipher NULL,EXPORT,LOW,3DES,aNULL -connect site:port
```
If some of the ciphers succeed, the server has weak ciphers.

The second option is to use Nmap, however the results should be checked with manually:
```
nmap --script ssl-enum-ciphers -p 443 example.com
```

# Server preferences
It can be seen the cipher order of the protocols available. 
If Diffie-Hellman is used as a key exchange, the key should be => 2048 bits

# Certificates
Server certificates enable the client to verify that it is connecting to the correct host. Though not usually used for HTTPS, SSL/TLS can also support mutual authentication in which the client proves its own identity through the provision of its own certificate.

To view the details of a server's certificate, the following command can be used:
```
openssl s_client -connect example.com:443 | openssl x509 -noout -text
```

The following attributes should be checked:
	* Common Name, Subject Alt Name and Issuer are congruent
	* The chain of trust is trusted
	* The certificate is not self-signed
	* The signature algorithm is strong
	* The server key size is >= 2048 bits
	* The certificate is not expired

# Vulnerabilities
